---
layout: archive
title: "CV"
permalink: /cv/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /resume
---

{% include base_path %}

Education
======
* **Post-Doc** at Recod.ai, University of Campinas \\
October 2019 – June 2025\\
**About:** Development of state-of-the-art methods for forecasting in temporal series for petroleum data, considering information from different sensors and types of wells, spurious data, and limitations from the platform. Developed approaches ranging from simple recurrent neural networks to transformers. This position was part of a project together with Shell Brazil.\\
**Supervisor:** Prof. Anderson de Rezende Rocha, Ph.D.

* **Ph.D in Computer Science** at University of Campinas\\
August 2014 – May 2019\\
**Thesis title:** Learning Graph-based Representations and Matching in Classification Tasks\\
**About:** Development of a new method to represent multimedia data using a graph representation combining the different media. Also developed a new method of matching graphs using a bag-of-graphs approach in different classification tasks.\\
**Advisor:** Prof. Ricardo da Silva Torres, Ph.D.

* **Master in Computer Science** at University of Campinas\\
February 2012 – August 2014\\
**Dissertation Title:** A unified framework for design, deployment, execution, and recommendation of machine learning experiments\\
**About:** Developed a framework for the design, deployment, and execution of machine-learning experiments. It allowed the user to create a plugin for a new method (feature extraction, classification, normalization, etc.) and use it in the framework. It also allowed the user to perform a recommendation on previous experiments created in the framework.\\
**Advisor:** Prof. Ricardo da Silva Torres, Ph.D.; **Co-advisor:** Prof. Anderson de Rezende Rocha, Ph.D.

* **Bachelor in Computer Science** at Federal University of Juiz de Fora\\
March 2008 – December 2011\\
**Advisor:** Prof. Raul Fonseca Neto, Ph.D.

Work experience
======
* AI Specialist (January 2025 – September 2025)
  * Psyche Aerospace/Turing
  * Developed drone and satellite image classification models, applying advanced image processing techniques to extract key features (e.g., YOLO, Delineate-Anything, GeoPandas).
  * Delivered data science insights from Big Data generated by agricultural machines, optimizing operational efficiency and resource allocation.
  * Engineered and deployed over 80 Artificial Intelligence Agents (AIAs) for Sales, Service, Finance, and Backoffice sectors, leading a 4-person development team.

* Research I (July 2024 – December 2024​)
  * Recod.ai, University of Campinas
  * Led the forecasting research team, directing the proposal, testing, and evaluation of data-driven forecasting methods for the oil and gas sector using Recurrent Neural Networks and Transformer models.
  * Authored and co-authored 14 publications during Post-Doc and Researcher roles.
  * Proposed a novel forecasting approach by expanding the Temporal Fusion Transformer model to incorporate the probability of well closure over a one-year horizon, based on historical daily closure distributions.

* Consultant (February 2023 – July 2023)
  * Inmetrics
  * Conducted algorithm research to develop classification models for understanding and categorizing online product text data.
  * Designed and implemented various Natural Language Processing (NLP) approaches to accurately classify online customer reviews, improving sentiment and topic analysis.

Leadership & Activities
======
* **Recod.ai:** Coordinated the Forecasting Team at the Shell/Recod.ai project.
* **Psyche Aerospace/Turing:** Managed and led the Agro Image Team and subsequently the Agents Team at the company, overseeing the development and deployment of more than 13 AI-driven agricultural vision models and more than 80 AI Agents. Also communicated directly with 3 clients to elicit and elaborate on their technical necessities, translating requirements into actionable project plans and presenting insights.
* **Boards:** Contributed expertise to 12 Master and Ph.D. examination boards.
* **Advisory:** Co-advisor of one Ph.D. candidate.
  
Skills & Interests
======
* **Technical:** Python, C, TensorFlow, PyTorch, n8n, QGIS
* **Language:** Portuguese (native), English (full professional proficiency), French (elementary)
* **Laboratory:** Git, Docker
* **Interests:** image processing, supervised learning, content-based image retrieval, regression, time series, , artificial, intelligence, graphs, deep learning, forecasting, feature engineering, pattern recognition, machine learning, text classification, agents, prompt engineering

Publications
======
  <ul>{% for post in site.publications reversed %}
    {% include archive-single-cv.html %}
  {% endfor %}</ul>
  
Talks
======
  <ul>{% for post in site.talks reversed %}
    {% include archive-single-talk-cv.html  %}
  {% endfor %}</ul>
  
Teaching
======
  <ul>{% for post in site.teaching reversed %}
    {% include archive-single-cv.html %}
  {% endfor %}</ul>
  
<!-- Service and leadership
======
* Currently signed in to 43 different slack teams -->
